Okay, so now we have a very
good knowledge on this require
function on this package JSON,
something on npm in it.
So now let's explore the FS module
and there is something really
new that I want to tell you.
Okay, so what I'm going
to do is I'm just going
to remove all the code from here.
So right now you can see
in my package JSON I have this
thing that we have already
seen in the last video.
So now what I'm going to do is
let's explore the FS module.
So what I can do is I can just
say const FS equals to require.
Okay, now I can use require
and I can just pass in the fs.
So now you can see that
the recommendation system
is working very good.
You can see we have a lot
of packages and I can say fs.
Now here is one thing.
Okay, this is something very new.
Now you can say either FS
in documentation, you will see
something like this, right?
So if I open the documentation, so
you can see that they are importing
in this particular manner, I.e.
node colon fs.
Now this is a relatively newer thing.
If even you say require fs,
this is going to work fine.
But in the newer versions
of Node js they are actually
moving, they're adding a support
for a namespaced this thing.
So this avoids the conflict.
So tomorrow if you have an FS
module, which is a third party
module as well, this will
avoid the conflict, right?
So this is telling the node js that
hey, this is a built in module.
So this is a relatively newer thing.
Older versions of Node
js don't have it.
It's only newer version.
So I also prefer this only.
So this makes this explicit that
if there is, if there is a package
name starting with node colon,
that's a built in package.
If it is just written like this,
it can be a, external package.
And if it starts with dot,
then that's a, then that's
a custom module, right?
So now I want to do it with node fs.
Now let's see what all we have.
So first you can read the files.
You can just say fs.read file sync.
Now here is one very interesting
thing that every function
that you see has a normal
version and a sync version.
So sync basically means this is going
to be a blocking operation.
Now what is a blocking
operation that we will cover
in the upcoming videos.
But as of now you can just, you
know, use a synchronized version or
I can say the blocking version.
So what I can do is I can just
give the notes txt file.
Okay so notes.txt file.
That is what I want to read.
And I want to read it as a u
sorry, I want to read it as a UTF
88 and this is going to give
you the contents of the file.
So just store it in the contents.
What do you call variable right?
And now just you can do a console
dot log on the contents.
So good control tilde and then
you can just say node and you can
just say index index and enter.
So you can see I'm able to read
the contents using this fs.
What you can do is you
can even create a file.
You can say fs.create
file okay, so create a.
I should say write file actually.
So right File.
Right.
While saying so let's go with
the blocking operation
and what is the name of the file?
So I'll just say copy.txt what do
you want to write in this file?
So let's say I want to write this or
maybe you can pass this content and
as a UTF8 so I want to pass UTF UTF8
so now what this particular thing is
going to do, Let me just move it up
and I'm just going to comment it out
because this is what we have seen.
This is going to create
a new file that is copy.
Txt and will write these contents.
So now you can see we don't
have any file that is copy.
Txt.
So if I run this particular code,
you can see it creates a new copy.
Txt file and you can see we
have the contents here.
What you can even do is that you
can actually read contents from
one file and then you can write
those contents in the another file.
So now if I run this code, what
you are going to say is that copy.
Txt is actually a copy of notes.
Txt One interesting thing here
to note is that this always
overrides the content, right?
So if I remove this and I just
say hey, what you're going
to notice is it always and always
overrides the content.
Similar to this, if you don't want
to override the content,
you can just say append file sync.
This will always add the content
to the file.
Okay?
It will not override.
You can see the content
is getting added.
So let's say if I give now
contents it is going to be added.
So pre previous data stays
and new content is getting added.
So you can even say hey
slash n for a new line.
So two new line characters
and then say hey.
And if I run it so you can see after
two lines you are getting an hey.
So you have append file,
you have write file, right?
So let me just write it here again
so that you have
the document ready, right?
You can refer to this code.
So earlier we have
seen write file sync.
So you can just say write something
which overrides the content.
This always creates a new con.
Basically append C file content.
You can even create directories.
Okay?
So you can just say fs
sorry fs.create.mkdir
that is for make directory.
What directory you want to make.
I want to make a directory
for let's say games, right?
So games.
And you can even pass
options like recursive.
Let's say you have more and in
which mode you want to create.
So I'll just say hey, FS mkdir node
and invalid archetype.
Oh, just a second.
I have to use
the synchronous version.
Yeah, so now you can see
it created a folder for me
that is games, right?
Similarly I can say hey,
inside the games, create a folder
XYZ and then create a.
And here you will
actually get an error.
So you can see that the error is
coming that because in Games
there is no folder xyz, right?
So to overcome this particular
problem, just say
recursive and set it to true.
Now it will automatically create all
the folders you can see in Games.
You have xyz, you have have a.
So you can create folders, you
can create directories, right?
And you can do something
like fs.remove directory.
Okay, let's say we have frm
dir saying
what directory want to remove?
I want to remove the games directory.
And again again, right?
Okay, so I want to just
remove this directory.
So if I do a node it gets an error.
Why?
Because Games is not
an empty directory.
So first you have to actually
remove all the directories.
So, so first let's
remove the A directory.
So you can see A is gone.
Then let's remove the xyz Then
you can see the XYZ also on.
And then finally we
can remove the game.
So that's a Linux feature, right?
You cannot remove a directory if
in Linux if it has some content.
So yeah, so same thing
it is doing that.
So now you have seen that using
this FS, you can do actually a lot
of stuff FS.Let's see
FS.Append file append file sync.
You have chmod.
So now you understand what all
these functions are doing, right?
These are all the functions that
are there to work with files.
Similarly, you have a function
to delete a file.
Let's say you have unlink.
So you can just say unlink sync.
Let's say I want to delete this copy.
Txt file.
Just pass copy.
Txt and this is going
to delete this file.
So you can see that file
got deleted, right?
This is a deleted file.
Nice.
So yeah, this FS module
is very powerful.
It gives you all the functionalities
to work on the file system.
Create directories, create files,
write to the files, open the
files in the read mode, open
file in a write mode, create
folders, delete folders,
basically everything related to
the file system.
So this was your node fs.
And now you also know that why
this node is there, right?
In order to avoid the conflict
and looks more cleaner.
So moving forward, we are going
to import the built in modules
using the node namespace, right?
And for third party we are going
to just do it like this.
So I hope that you like the video.
In the next video, let's
create a project.
Okay.
Let's see how we can create
an HTTP server in the node js.